docs/index.rst, before:

.. Webcasts documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Sun Mar  8 09:49:17 2020.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

###############################
 Tiny webcasts for lecture(r)s
###############################

Are you a lecturer and interested in not only providing your presentation slides online, but an **audio recording** as well? Would you like to have **small file sizes**, let's say 20--30 MB per hour recorded webcast? Would you be willing to accept a few restrictions, such as no mouse pointer and no HD audio quality? Than we might have something for you.


Features
########

  * Webcasts: slide shows with audio recording
  * Small file size: approx. 20--30 MB per hour (50--70 kbit/s)
  * Tool chain consisting exclusively of open source programs
  * Slides separated from audio: perfect for fixing typos, changing slide layout and alike
  * Open source, free of charge


In a nutshell
#############

To create webcasts, there is only a few simple steps:

  * Create your presentation (slide show) and convert it into PDF format
  * Record the audio for your presentation
  * Cut the audio trace in pieces, one file per slide
  * Run the scripts provided with this project
  * Upload and share your final webcast


Installation
############

The scripts used to create the webcasts can be obtained from `GitHub <https://github.com/tillbiskup/tiny-webcasts>`_.

Check the :doc:`requirements page <requirements>` for additional programs necessary and how to install them.

For :doc:`installing <installation>` the scripts there are a few hints and there exists even an installer script for your convenience.


Where to start
##############

Still unsure whether this is something for you? See the :doc:`Who's the audience? <audience>` section. Ready to start? Have a look at the :doc:`requirements <requirements>` necessary to get started. And finally, have a look at the :doc:`workflow <workflow>` for creating webcasts.

Those new to audacity but interested in using it may have a look at the :doc:`short introduction to audacity <audacity>`. And those already familiar but in need of a quick reminder how to create the webcasts may visit the :doc:`quick reference <quick>`.

Have fun and share your knowledge!


Examples
########

A few `examples of webcasts <https://www.till-biskup.de/de/lehre/organische-elektronik/ss2019/>`_ created with the workflow described here can be found on the website of one of the authors. The lectures are currently in German only.


License
#######

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the **GNU General Public License** as published by the Free Software Foundation, either **version 3** of the License, or (at your option) any later version.


.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Contents:

   audience
   requirements
   installation
   workflow
   audacity
   quick
   details
   development

Commit message:

Start with FAQs; link to webcasts explaining "Tiny Webcasts"

docs/index.rst, after:

.. Webcasts documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Sun Mar  8 09:49:17 2020.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

###############################
 Tiny webcasts for lecture(r)s
###############################

Are you a lecturer and interested in not only providing your presentation slides online, but an **audio recording** as well? Would you like to have **small file sizes**, let's say 20--30 MB per hour recorded webcast? Would you be willing to accept a few restrictions, such as no mouse pointer and no HD audio quality? Than we might have something for you.


Features
########

  * Webcasts: slide shows with audio recording
  * Small file size: approx. 20--30 MB per hour (50--70 kbit/s)
  * Tool chain consisting exclusively of open source programs
  * Slides separated from audio: perfect for fixing typos, changing slide layout and alike
  * Open source, free of charge


In a nutshell
#############

To create webcasts, there is only a few simple steps:

  * Create your presentation (slide show) and convert it into PDF format
  * Record the audio for your presentation
  * Cut the audio trace in pieces, one file per slide
  * Run the scripts provided with this project
  * Upload and share your final webcast


Installation
############

The scripts used to create the webcasts can be obtained from `GitHub <https://github.com/tillbiskup/tiny-webcasts>`_.

Check the :doc:`requirements page <requirements>` for additional programs necessary and how to install them.

For :doc:`installing <installation>` the scripts there are a few hints and there exists even an installer script for your convenience.


Where to start
##############

Still unsure whether this is something for you? See the :doc:`Who's the audience? <audience>` section. Ready to start? Have a look at the :doc:`requirements <requirements>` necessary to get started. And finally, have a look at the :doc:`workflow <workflow>` for creating webcasts.

Those new to audacity but interested in using it may have a look at the :doc:`short introduction to audacity <audacity>`. And those already familiar but in need of a quick reminder how to create the webcasts may visit the :doc:`quick reference <quick>`.

Have fun and share your knowledge!


Examples
########

A few `examples of lecture webcasts <https://www.till-biskup.de/de/lehre/organische-elektronik/ss2019/>`_ created with the workflow described here can be found on the website of one of the authors. The lectures are currently in German only.

A (growing) `series of webcasts introducing Tiny Webcasts <https://www.till-biskup.de/en/software/webcasts/index>` created with -- well, you will guess it -- "Tiny Webcasts" is now as well available, but this time in English.


License
#######

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the **GNU General Public License** as published by the Free Software Foundation, either **version 3** of the License, or (at your option) any later version.


.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Contents:

   audience
   requirements
   installation
   workflow
   audacity
   quick
   details
   development
   faq
